[patterns] Disambiguate identifiers in the pattern grammar. (#2785)
dart-lang/language: accepted/future-releases/0546-patterns/feature-specification.md

elided when it can be inferred from the field's value subpattern. The inferred
field name for a pattern `p`, if one exists, is defined as:

> *   If `p` is a variable or identifier pattern which binds or assigns a variable

Reviewer: Perhaps
```suggestion
*   If `p` is a variable or identifier pattern whose identifier is
```
There is no doubt about which identifier we are referring to because both the variable pattern syntax and the identifier pattern syntax has exactly one `<identifier>`. With this change we'd avoid the semantic knot "but if `v` is `_` then it doesn't actually bind or assign any variables". This knot could create the idea in some readers' minds that `_` _could_ bind a variable named `_` in some mysterious situations.

Author: Good idea, done.

    to local variables, which are also the only kind of variables that can be
    declared by patterns.*

*   The matched value type for an identifier pattern is not assignable to the
    corresponding variable's type.

*   The same variable is assigned more than once. *In other words, a pattern

>     assignment can't have multiple identifier subpatterns with the same name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assignment can't have multiple variable or identifier subpatterns with the same name.
```

Author: With this change, pattern assignments can no longer contain variable patterns at all, only identifier patterns, so we don't need to call them out here.

    *This program prints "no match" and not "match 2".*

    *There is no ambiguity with bare identifiers in irrefutable contexts since
    constant patterns are disallowed there.*

*   An identifier pattern named `_` in any context is treated as a wildcard that

>     matches all values and does nothing. *A bare `_` is always treated as a

Author: Good point, done.

If `p` with required type `T` is in an irrefutable context:

*   It is a compile-time error if `M` is not assignable to `T`. *Destructuring,
    variable, and identifier patterns can only be used in declarations and
    assignments if we can statically tell that the destructuring and variable

>     binding won't fail to match.*

Reviewer: Perhaps:
```suggestion
    binding won't fail to match (though it may still throw at run time, if the matched value type is `dynamic`).*
```

Author: Done.

    with the same name. *A pattern can't declare the same variable more than
    once.*

> *   **Relational** **constant**: The empty set.

Author: Oops, no. :) I had briefly toyed with lumping identifier patterns in here before deciding otherwise.

        matching context, the variable is final if the variable pattern is
        marked `final` and is not otherwise.

*   **Identifier**:

    1.  In a matching context, the empty set. *The identifier is a constant
        reference.*

    2.  Else a set containing a single variable whose name is the identifier and
        whose type is the pattern's required type (which may have been

>         inferred). The variable is final if the surrounding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        inferred). The variable is final iff the surrounding
```

Author: Spelled it out, but done.

-   Handle negative length lists and maps (#2701).

-   Disambiguate the grammar around bare identifiers (#2714). The overall
    syntax and semantics are unchanged, but the grammar itself is now

>     unambiguous.

Reviewer: I'd prefer to say that this particular ambiguity has been removed. ;-)  For instance, we have cases like `f(g<A, B>(c))` which are disambiguated using rules that aren't part of the grammar.

Author: Haha, fair. Done.
